---
layout: post
title:  "Why it is difficult to get people out of MLM schemes"
date:   2020-05-16 17:12:00 +0700
categories: [life]
tags: [mlm, psychology]
<!-- image: cycling.jpg -->
---
**Disclaimer:** *Following are my opinions, if you don't subscribe to them that's fine. If you have any comments, let me know at krullun@gmail.com. One of my friend is in QNET, a direct selling company that sells beauty and wellness products. Most of this has come out of my discussions with him.*
 
## Ethics 
Most of normal people try to argue about the rational based on the fact that product are not genuine and too expensive. Many a times costumer don't even get the products.  

That's all correct but to a person who has been sold to the idea of MLM, its just business and it’s the marketing that sells the product. So, to them it doesn't matter that products are fake or not as long as the costumer has been convinced to buy them.  

These people have move beyond the concept of doing the right thing. The world seems unfair to them and so must they be in return. Their ethics have been adapted to this unjust world. To them, everything else has been portrait as a ponzi scheme in their regular meeting. Only this ponzi scheme actually work for them unlike others. 


## Business 

Other point that is raised that there are only so many people in the world to join the pyramids scheme. The lower you go down the pyramid, the more number of people are required complete that level.  

But these people see the very zoomed in picture, where they are near the top of the pyramid. They have been made to believe that it is their business and 'you can go as big as you want'. Now, when the startup culture is at its peak, the narrative is built around entrepreneurship.  

My friend in particular is mainly drawn to this aspect of the salespitch. He is convinced that he is building a network, learning marketing skills that would not be possible or as easy otherwise.  


<!-- Parsing JSON with Ruby is actually extremely easy. All you have to do is have the json gem installed (`gem install json`) and call the `JSON.parse` method on the JSON data to convert it to ruby hashes. If you look at this small program here, you can see how I have implemented parsing JSON in Ruby.
 -->
<!-- {% highlight ruby %}
#!/usr/bin/env ruby

require 'json'
require 'net/http'
require 'libnotify'

def parsejson
    file = "http://api.openweathermap.org/data/2.5/find?q=London&mode=json"
    response = Net::HTTP.get_response(URI.parse(file))
    weatherjson = response.body
    actual = JSON.parse(weatherjson)

    # check for errors
    if actual.has_key? 'Error'
        raise "error with the url"
    end

    results = []

    actual["list"].each do |listitem|
        weather = listitem["weather"]
        weather.each do |weath|
            results.push(weath["description"])
        end
        main = listitem["main"]
        temp = main["temp"] - 273.15
        results.push ("%.2f" % temp)
    end

    return results
end
{% endhighlight %}
 -->